### __Dockerfile__



#### New Docker Build secret information

The new --secret flag for docker build allows the user to pass secret information to be used in the Dockerfile for building docker images in a safe way that will not end up stored in the final image.

id is the identifier to pass into the docker build --secret. This identifier is associated with the RUN --mount identifier to use in the Dockerfile. Docker does not use the filename of where the secret is kept outside of the Dockerfile, since this may be sensitive information.

dst renames the secret file to a specific file in the Dockerfile RUN command to use.

For example, with a secret piece of information stored in a text file:

```
$ echo 'WARMACHINEROX' > mysecret.txt
```
And with a Dockerfile that specifies use of a BuildKit frontend docker/dockerfile:1.0-experimental, the secret can be accessed.

For example:
```
# syntax = docker/dockerfile:1.0-experimental
FROM alpine

# shows secret from default secret location:
RUN --mount=type=secret,id=mysecret cat /run/secrets/mysecret

# shows secret from custom secret location:
RUN --mount=type=secret,id=mysecret,dst=/foobar cat /foobar
```
This Dockerfile is only to demonstrate that the secret can be accessed. As you can see the secret printed in the build output. The final image built will not have the secret file:

```
$ docker build --no-cache --progress=plain --secret id=mysecret,src=mysecret.txt .
...
#8 [2/3] RUN --mount=type=secret,id=mysecret cat /run/secrets/mysecret
#8       digest: sha256:5d8cbaeb66183993700828632bfbde246cae8feded11aad40e524f54ce7438d6
#8         name: "[2/3] RUN --mount=type=secret,id=mysecret cat /run/secrets/mysecret"
#8      started: 2018-08-31 21:03:30.703550864 +0000 UTC
#8 1.081 WARMACHINEROX
#8    completed: 2018-08-31 21:03:32.051053831 +0000 UTC
#8     duration: 1.347502967s


#9 [3/3] RUN --mount=type=secret,id=mysecret,dst=/foobar cat /foobar
#9       digest: sha256:6c7ebda4599ec6acb40358017e51ccb4c5471dc434573b9b7188143757459efa
#9         name: "[3/3] RUN --mount=type=secret,id=mysecret,dst=/foobar cat /foobar"
#9      started: 2018-08-31 21:03:32.052880985 +0000 UTC
#9 1.216 WARMACHINEROX
#9    completed: 2018-08-31 21:03:33.523282118 +0000 UTC
#9     duration: 1.470401133s
...
```






dockerfile best practices

- https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/
- https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/


1. RUN: docker image build lurken çalışır
2. CMD: build işlemi bittikten sonra docker container ayağa kaltığında çalışır. Komut satırında docker image dan container ayağa kaldırılşıp çalıştırılırken cli ın ezilerek CMD dedeki komutun çalışması sağlanır. bir docker file da sadece bir adet CMD bulunmalıdır.
  
CMD birkaç farklı şekilde yazılabilir.

- CMD [ "executable", "param1", "param2" ]
- CMD [ "param1", "param2" ] // entrypoint in işaret ettiği yerde bir executable var zaten ona işaret emiş oluruz.
- CMD command param1 param2

3. ENTRYPOINT: Eğer oluşturlan image belli bir excutable un parametre alarak çalışcağı bir uygulam ise, ENTRYPOINT ilgili executable olduğu yerde bırakılırsa sadece parametre vererek container  ı ayağa kaldırmak mümkün olcaktır.

- ENTRYPOINT [ "/bin/ping" ]  // buradada bırakılırsa dockerfile içinde

aşağıdaki şekilde ping executable ı yazılmadan çağrılabilir. bu arada bestpractice bu şekilde.

- docker run ubuntu 8.8.8.8

4. ADD: image a local den dosya kopyalamak için kullanılır. COPY den farklı oarak internetteen bira adrestedn de indirebilir.
   
 - ADD ["src",... "dest"]

5. WORKDIR: aktif olarak RUN, CMD, ENTRYPOINT, COPY komutlarının çalışağı klasörü belirtir.
   
6. HEALTHCHECK :

- HEALTHCHECK --interval=5m --timeout=3s CMD curl -f http://localhost/ || exit 1

https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/doc-detail/58588.htm

1. SHELL: 



SHELL ["executable", "parameters"]

The SHELL instruction allows the default shell used for the shell form of commands to be overridden. The default shell on Linux is ["/bin/sh", "-c"], and on Windows is ["cmd", "/S", "/C"]. The SHELL instruction must be written in JSON form in a Dockerfile.

The SHELL instruction is particularly useful on Windows where there are two commonly used and quite different native shells: cmd and powershell, as well as alternate shells available including sh.

The SHELL instruction can appear multiple times. Each SHELL instruction overrides all previous SHELL instructions, and affects all subsequent instructions. For example:




``` docker
FROM microsoft/windowsservercore

# Executed as cmd /S /C echo default
RUN echo default

# Executed as cmd /S /C powershell -command Write-Host default
RUN powershell -command Write-Host default

# Executed as powershell -command Write-Host hello
SHELL ["powershell", "-command"]
RUN Write-Host hello

# Executed as cmd /S /C echo hello
SHELL ["cmd", "/S", "/C"]
RUN echo hello
```

8. STOPSIGNAL:

STOPSIGNAL signal

The STOPSIGNAL instruction sets the system call signal that will be sent to the container to exit. This signal can be a valid unsigned number that matches a position in the kernel’s syscall table, for instance 9, or a signal name in the format SIGNAME, for instance SIGKILL.

9. ONBUILD:

An ONBUILD command executes after the current Dockerfile build completes. ONBUILD executes in any child image derived FROM the current image. Think of the ONBUILD command as an instruction the parent Dockerfile gives to the child Dockerfile.

A Docker build executes ONBUILD commands before any command in a child Dockerfile.

ONBUILD is useful for images that are going to be built FROM a given image. For example, you would use ONBUILD for a language stack image that builds arbitrary user software written in that language within the Dockerfile, as you can see in Ruby’s ONBUILD variants.

10. ENV

docker compose da .env doyasına bu parametreler geçirilir.

image create edilirken yan ibuild edilirken ARG verilir parametre olarka container ayağa kaldırılırkende env sile yada parametre aolark ENV ler geçirilir.
yada image create olurken ENV ler doldurulsun istiyorsak ozman ARG ı ENV ebağlamak gerekiyor.



To make new software easier to run, you can use ENV to update the PATH environment variable for the software your container installs. For example, ENV PATH /usr/local/nginx/bin:$PATH ensures that CMD ["nginx"] just works.

The ENV instruction is also useful for providing required environment variables specific to services you wish to containerize, such as Postgres’s PGDATA.

Lastly, ENV can also be used to set commonly used version numbers so that version bumps are easier to maintain, as seen in the following example:

```docker
ENV PG_MAJOR 9.3
ENV PG_VERSION 9.3.4
RUN curl -SL http://example.com/postgres-$PG_VERSION.tar.xz | tar -xJC /usr/src/postgress && …
ENV PATH /usr/local/postgres-$PG_MAJOR/bin:$PATH
```
- The ARG instruction defines a variable that users can pass at build-time to the builder with the docker build command using the --build-arg [varname]=[value] flag.

- The ENV instruction sets the environment variable [key] to the value [value].
The environment variables set using ENV will persist when a container is run from the resulting image.

- So if you need build-time customization, ARG is your best choice.
If you need run-time customization (to run the same image with different settings), ENV is well-suited.


But you can combine both by:

- building an image with a specific ARG
- using that ARG as an ENV

That is, with a Dockerfile including:
```
ARG var
ENV var=${var}
```

You can then either build an image with a specific var value at build-time (docker build --build-arg var=xxx), or run a container with a specific runtime value (docker run -e var=yyy)



1.  ARG

image create edilirken yan ibuild edilirken ARG verilir parametre olarka container ayağa kaldırılırkende env sile yada parametre aolark ENV ler geçirilir.
yada image create olurken ENV ler doldurulsun istiyorsak ozman ARG ı ENV ebağlamak gerekiyor.


The ARG instruction defines a variable that users can pass at build-time to the builder with the docker build command using the --build-arg [varname]=[value] flag. If a user specifies a build argument that was not defined in the Dockerfile, the build outputs a warning.

```dockerfile
FROM busybox
ARG user1=someuser
ARG buildno=1
```

It is not recommended to use build-time variables for passing secrets like github keys, user credentials etc. Build-time variable values are visible to any user of the image with the docker history command.

Refer to the “build images with BuildKit” section to learn about secure ways to use secrets when building images. https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/build_enhancements/#new-docker-build-secret-information

bu sayfanın en üstünde de bu kısım var.

- The ARG instruction defines a variable that users can pass at build-time to the builder with the docker build command using the --build-arg [varname]=[value] flag.

- The ENV instruction sets the environment variable [key] to the value [value].
The environment variables set using ENV will persist when a container is run from the resulting image.

- So if you need build-time customization, ARG is your best choice.
If you need run-time customization (to run the same image with different settings), ENV is well-suited.


But you can combine both by:

- building an image with a specific ARG
- using that ARG as an ENV

That is, with a Dockerfile including:
```
ARG var
ENV var=${var}
```

You can then either build an image with a specific var value at build-time (docker build --build-arg var=xxx), or run a container with a specific runtime value (docker run -e var=yyy)




1.  VOLUME

VOLUME ["/data"]

The VOLUME instruction creates a mount point with the specified name and marks it as holding externally mounted volumes from native host or other containers. The value can be a JSON array, VOLUME ["/var/log/"], or a plain string with multiple arguments, such as VOLUME /var/log or VOLUME /var/log /var/db. For more information/examples and mounting instructions via the Docker client, refer to Share Directories via Volumes documentation.

The docker run command initializes the newly created volume with any data that exists at the specified location within the base image. For example, consider the following Dockerfile snippet:

``` docker
FROM ubuntu
RUN mkdir /myvol
RUN echo "hello world" > /myvol/greeting
VOLUME /myvol
```

14. USER

If a service can run without privileges, use USER to change to a non-root user. Start by creating the user and group in the Dockerfile with something like RUN groupadd -r postgres && useradd --no-log-init -r -g postgres postgres.

```
FROM microsoft/windowsservercore
# Create Windows user in the container
RUN net user /add patrick
# Set it for subsequent commands
USER patrick
```



-
- https://gokhansengun.com/docker-yeni-image-hazirlama/